# Genetic Sequences Quality Analysis

This repository contains a set of scripts and tools used for analyzing the quality of HIV genetic sequences. The main goal is to collect, clean, assemble, and annotate genomic sequences for bioinformatic investigation.



# Tools and Software Used

The project uses various bioinformatics tools for processing genetic data:

- SRA Toolkit and Fasterq-dump: For collecting sequencing data in FASTQ format and evaluating the quality of sequences.
- Fastp: For cleaning and trimming sequences by removing adapters, realigning bases, and trimming low-quality reads.
- SPAdes: For de novo genome assembly.
- Bandage: For graphical visualization of the generated assembly in GFA format.
- Prodigal: For gene prediction from assembled contigs.
- BLAST: For functional annotation of sequences.

  

# Repository Structure

The repository is organized as follows:

/quality-analysis-genetic-sequences/

- scripts/
  sra_toolkit.sh        # Script for downloading SRA sequences and converting them to FASTQ

  count_reads.sh         # Script for counting reads in FASTQ files

  fastp_cleaning.sh      # Script for cleaning and trimming sequences with Fastp

  spades_assembly.sh     # Script for genome assembly with SPAdes

  rodigal_gene_prediction.sh  # Script for gene prediction with Prodigal

  blast_annotation.sh    # Script for functional annotation with BLAST
  

- results/
  contigs.fasta          # Contig file generated from assembly

  scaffolds.fasta        # Scaffold file generated from SPAdes

  fastp_report.html      # Report generated by Fastp

  blast_results.txt      # Results of functional annotation with BLAST

- README.md                  # Repository documentation



# How to Use

- Clone the repository to your local machine:

git clone https://github.com/isabellegomeszm/quality-analysis-genetic-sequences.git

cd quality-analysis-genetic-sequences

- Install the required dependencies to run the scripts (such as SRA Toolkit, Fastp, SPAdes, Prodigal, BLAST).

- Run the scripts as needed. The scripts are automated to perform tasks like data collection, cleaning, assembly, gene prediction, and annotation.

- Check the results in the results/ folder.



# License
This repository is licensed under the MIT License. See the LICENSE file for more details.
